.\" ENVIRONMENTS: COHERENT, LC, TOS, ISIS, ANSI
.ds AS ANSI Standard
.ds KR The C Programming Language, Kernighan and Ritchie
.TH "declarators" Overview "(Language/declarations)" Overview
.PC
.PP
A
.I declarator
consists of an object being declared plus its 
array, pointer, and function modifiers.
.if \nX=4 \{\
The syntax is as follows;
.I opt
indicates
.IR optional :
.DS
.I
	declarator:
		pointer\dopt\u direct-declarator
.fi
.DE
.DS
.I
	direct-declarator:
		identifier
		\fL( \fIdeclarator \fL)\fI
		direct-declarator \fL[\fI constant-expression \dopt\u \fL]\fI
		direct-declarator \fL(\fI parameter-type-list \fL)\fI
		direct-declarator \fL(\fI identifier-list\dopt\u \fL)\fI
.fi
.DE
.DS
.I
	pointer:
		\fL*\fI type-qualifier-list\dopt\u
		\fL*\fI type-qualifier-list\dopt\u pointer
.fi
.DE
.DS
.I
	type-qualifier-list:
		type-qualifier
		type-qualifier-list type-qualifier
.fi
.DE
.DS
.I
	parameter-type-list:
		parameter-list
		parameter list ,  . . .
.fi
.DE
.DS
.I
	parameter-list:
		parameter-declaration
		parameter-list , parameter-declaration
.fi
.DE
.DS
.I
	parameter-declaration:
		declaration-specifiers declarator
		declaration-specifiers abstract-declarator\dopt\u
.fi
.DE
.DS
.I
	identifier-list
		identifier
		identifier-list , identifier
.fi
.DE \}
.PP	
For example,
.DM
.PP
.nf
	int arrayname[10];
.fi
.DE
.PP
declares an array.
.DM
.PP
.nf
	int functionname( int arg1, int arg2, char *arg3 );
.fi
.DE
.PP
declares a function.
.DM
.PP
.nf
	int *pointername;
.fi
.DE
.PP
declares a pointer.
.PP
An implementation must be able to support at least 12 levels of
declarators.
Most implementations had given a lower limit.
.SH Cross-references
.nf
\*(AS, \*(PS3.5.4
\*(KR, pp. 215\fIff\fR
.SH "See Also"
.B
array declarators, declarations, function declarators, pointer declarators
.R
.SH Notes
To clarify some terminology that may be confusing:
.PP
A
.I declaration
encompasses the object declared, plus its specifiers, qualifiers,
and levels of declarators.
.PP
A
.I declarator
consists of the object declared, plus its levels of specifiers
(which set array dimensions, functions, or pointers).
.PP
A
.I definition
is a declaration that allocates storage.
