.\" ENVIRONMENTS: COHERENT, LC, TOS, ISIS, ANSI
.ds AS ANSI Standard
.ds KR The C Programming Language, Kernighan and Ritchie
.TH char 3K 2015 "(Lexical elements/identifiers/types)" "C keyword"
.PC
.PP
The data type
.B char
is the smallest addressable unit of data.
It consists of one byte of storage, and it can encode all of the characters
that can be used to write a C program.
\fBsizeof(char)\fR returns one by definition, with all
other data types defined as multiples thereof.
.PP
A
.B char
may be either signed or unsigned; this is up to the implementation.
.if \nX<4 \*(PN uses a signed \fBchar\fR by default.
If a
.B char
holds any of the characters that make up the C character set,
then it is positive.
ANSI C allows the corresponding types
.B "signed char"
and
.BR "unsigned char" .
Programmers can create signed and unsigned versions of
.B char
where needed.
.PP
The range of values that can be encoded within a
.B char
are set by the macros
.B CHAR_MIN
and
.BR CHAR_MAX .
These are defined in the header
.BR limits.h .
The minimum values of these macros depend upon whether the implementation
sign-extends a
.B char
when it is used in an expression.
If the implementation does sign extend, then
.B CHAR_MIN
is equal to
.B SCHAR_MIN
(at least -127) and
.B CHAR_MAX
is equal to
.B SCHAR_MAX
(at least +127).
If it does not sign extend, however,
.B CHAR_MIN
is equal to zero and
.B CHAR_MAX
is equal to
.B UCHAR_MAX
(at least +255).
.SH Cross-references
.nf
\*(AS, \*(PS3.1.2.5
\*(KR, p. 211
.SH "See Also"
.B
signed char, types, unsigned char
.R
