.\" ENVIRONMENTS: COHERENT, LC, TOS, ISIS, ANSI
.ds AS ANSI Standard
.ds KR The C Programming Language, Kernighan and Ritchie
.TH if "C keyword" "(Language/statements/selection statements)" "C keyword"
.XR "conditionally execute expression"
.XR "expression, conditionally execute"
.PC "Conditionally execute an expression"
\fBif(\fIconditional\^\fB) \fIstatement\^\fB;\fR
.PP
.B if
is a C keyword that conditionally executes an expression.
If
.I conditional
is nonzero, then
.I statement
is executed.
However, if
.I conditional
is zero, then
.I statement
is not executed.
.PP
.I conditional
must use a scalar type.
It may be a function call (in which case
.B if
evaluates what function returns),
an integer, the result of an arithmetic operation, or
the value returned by a relational expression.
.PP
An
.B if
statement can be followed by an
.B else
statement, which also introduces a statement.
If
.I conditional
is nonzero,
then the statement introduced by
.B if
is executed and the one introduced by
.B else
is ignored; whereas if
.I conditional
is equal to zero, then the statement introduced by
.B if
is ignored and the one introduced by
.B else
is executed.
.SH Example
For an example of this statement, see
.BR exit .
.SH Cross-references
.nf
\*(AS, \*(PS4.6.4.1
\*(KR, pp. 55\fIff\fR
.SH "See Also"
.B
.if \nX<4 else, statements, switch
.if \nX=4 else, selection statements, switch
.R
.SH Notes
If the statement controlled by an
.B if
statement is accessed via a label, the statement
controlled by an
.B else
statement associated with the
.B if
statement is not executed.
