.\" ENVIRONMENTS: COHERENT, LC, TOS, ISIS, ANSI
.ds AS ANSI Standard
.ds KR The C Programming Language, Kernighan and Ritchie
.TH "long double" Type "(Language/lexical elements/identifiers/types)" Type
.PC
.PP
A
.B "long double"
is a data type that represents at least a
double-precision floating-point number.
It is defined as being at least as large as a
.BR double .
In some environments,
extra precision can be gained by representing values with it.
.PP
Like all floating-point numbers, a
.B "long double"
consists of one sign bit, which indicates
whether the number is positive or negative; bits that encode
the number's \fIexponent\fR; and bits that encode the number's
\fImantissa\fR, or the number upon which the exponent works.
The exponent often uses a
.IR bias .
This is a value that is subtracted from the exponent to yield the
power of two by which the fraction will be increased.
The structure of a
.B "long double"
and the range of values that it can encode are set in the following
macros, all of which are defined in the header
.BR limits.h :
.RS
.IP \fBLDBL_DIG\fR
.br
This holds the number of decimal digits of precision.
This must be at least ten.
.IP \fBLDBL_EPSILON\fR
.br
Where
.I b
indicates the base of the exponent (default, two) and
.I p
indicates the precision (or number of base \fIb\fR digits in the mantissa),
this macro holds the minimum positive floating-point number
.I x
such that 1.0 + \fIx\fR does not equal 1.0, \fIb\fR^1-\fIp\fR.
This must be at least 1E-9.
.IP \fBLDBL_MAX\fR
.br
This holds the maximum representable floating-point number.
It must be at least 1E+37.
.IP \fBLDBL_MAX_EXP\fR
.br
This is the maximum integer such that the base raised to its power minus one
is a representable finite floating-point number.
No value is given for this macro.
.IP \fBLDBL_MAX_10_EXP\fR
.br
This holds the maximum integer such that ten raised to its power is within
the range of representable finite floating-point numbers.
It must be at least +37.
.IP \fBLDBL_MANT_DIG\fR
.br
This gives the number of digits in the mantissa.
No value is given for this macro.
.IP \fBLDBL_MIN\fR
.br
This gives the minimum value encodable within a
.BR "long double" .
This must be at least 1E-37.
.IP \fBLDBL_MIN_EXP\fR
.br
This gives the minimum negative integer such that when the base is raised
to that power minus one is a normalized floating-point number.
No value is given for this macro.
.IP \fBLDBL_MIN_10_EXP\fR
.br
This gives the minimum negative integer such that ten raised to that power
is within the range of normalized floating-point numbers.
.PP
A
.B "long double"
constant is represented by the suffix
.B l
or
.B L
on a floating-point constant.
.if \nX<4 \{\
.PP
For information about common floating-point formats, see
.BR float . \}
.SH Cross-references
.nf
\*(AS, \*(PS2.2.4.2, \*(PS3.1.2.4, \*(PS3.1.3.1, \*(PS3.5.2
\*(KR, p. 196
.SH "See Also"
.B
double, float, types
.R
