.\" ENVIRONMENTS: COHERENT, LC, TOS, ISIS, ANSI
.ds AS ANSI Standard
.ds KR The C Programming Language, Kernighan and Ritchie
.TH switch 3K 2015 "(Statements/selection statements)" "C keyword"
.XR "table, select entry in"
.XR "select entry in table"
.PC "Select an entry in a table"
\fBswitch ( \fIexpression \fB) \fIstatement\fR
.PP
.B switch
evaluates
.IR expression ,
jumps to the
.B case
label whose
expression is equal to
.IR expression ,
and continues execution from there.
.I expression
may evaluate to any integral type, not just an
.BR int .
Every
.B case
label's
.I expression
is cast to the type of
.I conditional
before it is compared with
.IR expression .
.PP
If no
.B case
expression matches
.IR expression ,
.B switch
jumps to the point marked by the
.B default
label.
If there is no default label, then
.B switch
does not jump and no statement is executed;
execution then continues from the \*(Ql}\*(Qr
that marks the end of the
.B switch
statement.
.PP
The program continues its execution
from the point to which
.B switch
jumps, either until a
.BR break ,
.BR continue ,
.BR goto ,
or
.B return
statement is read, or until the \*(Ql}\*(Qr that encloses all of the
.B case
statements is encountered.
.PP
All
.B case
labels are subordinate to the closest enclosing
.B switch
statement.
No two
.B case
labels can have expressions with the same value.
However, if a
.B case
label introduces a secondary
.B switch
statement, then that
.B switch
statement's suite of
.B case
labels may duplicate the values used by the
.B case
labels of the outer
.B switch
statement.
.SH Example
For an example of this statement, see
.BR printf .
.SH Cross-references
.nf
\*(AS, \*(PS3.6.4.2
\*(KR, pp. 58\fIff\fR
.SH "See Also"
.B
.if \nX<4 break, case, default, if, statements
.if \nX=4 break, case, default, if, selection statements
.R
.SH Notes
It is good programming practice always to use a
.B default
label with a
.B switch
statement.
There may be only one
.B default
label with any
.B switch
statement.
.PP
The number of
.B case
labels that can be included with a
.B switch
statement may vary from implementation to implementation.
The Standard requires that every conforming implementation
allow a
.B switch
statement to have up to at least 257
.B case
labels.
.PP
The first edition of
.I "The C Programming Language"
requires that
.I conditional
may evaluate to an
.BR int .
The Standard lifts this requirement:
.I conditional
may now be any integral type, from
.B short
to
.BR "unsigned long" .
Every
.I expression
associated with a
.B case
label will be altered to conform to the type of
.IR conditional .
Therefore, if a program depends upon
.I conditional
or any
.I expression
being an
.BR int ,
it may work differently under a conforming translator.
This is a quiet change that may break existing code.
